More recently I have been working for myself and when I run into people I once worked with the first question they ask me is, "what are you working on now?" I figured I would write up a semi-brief overview of what I am working on and why I am working on it in the hopes that some of you are interested in the project and would like to try it out and spread the word.

Why is learning how to read so challenging?
Learning how to read is not just the ability to sound out words and understanding phonemes and phonics. Contextualizing what you read in terms of other concepts that you already understand is the most important part of understanding new information hence gaining reading comprehension skills. Parents with more time and resources understand the importance of explaining things to their children and the higher-level concepts of ethics and morality. I have noticed they tend to teach their children the way the world currently operates and give them the autonomy to understand that they have the power to change it, plus the know-how in terms of how to do it. Ironically the public library in places like the bay area is full of fiction and non-fiction stories of people who have changed the world literally and the way they did it. If children were exposed to these stories at a young age and really understood the stories I think that we could create a world full of change-makers and do-gooders.

What is the problem? Why hasn't this been done already?
The world we currently live in is full of adults who are illiterate and once you pass the high school age as an illiterate person it can be difficult to find the motivation to take the time to go back to school and learn how to read. Reading is a skill that sort of builds on itself and if you are not on track to read by around third grade the public school system generally has nothing to offer you. Currently, in America, lower-income people dominate the illiterate cluster of folks and it's not as if people are choosing to gain skills instead of learning to read, they are forced into the labor market as unskilled low wage workers, this is generally known as the gig economy. I personally am not invested in finding solutions for adults who can not or will not attend community college which has the resources to help adult learners gain new skills including learning how to read, but I am invested in making sure that the public schools we have now all over the world are actually producing quality adults.

There are so many problems with public schools at the present time but I will point out here the lack of critical thought in terms of students. Students are flooding classrooms completely unengaged. I think that the lack of a culturally relevant curriculum is the primary problem. How are we living in 2019 and in America still teaching a whitewashed version of American history? We have elementary students who are dealing with family separation and deportation, we have students who are dealing with poverty including homelessness, food insecurity and poor overall hygiene. Why aren't we teaching students how to identify their own poor living standards and fix them? I have identified the fact that many young people fail to understand that their own shortcomings because they don't have the adult insight that comes from lived experience without the hindrance.

The internet could begin to solve this problem
More resources are being shared on the internet and this is making it much easier for people to consume information. The illiteracy problem is still a really big problem and there is a real need for solutions that will help adults transition into 21st-century living standards. I have read a few articles which talk about how people in India are moving out of poverty and earning more money but they are not choosing to purchase more food even though nutritionally they are starving. It's weird. During my time working with developers, it became clear how so many developers in Africa were interested in copying the American way of living but they were not so interested in solving the huge infrastructure problems which were right in front of them. It is confusing to me how nations are focused on moving forward with big data and machine learning when most people can not read, do not have internet access, do not have health care and do not have access to basic sewage. Technology could do a LOT to move the needle on any one of these issues which seriously need solutions that scale.

I am unsure of how we begin to develop people with more autonomy so that they choose to live more quality lifestyles. I think that storytelling is one great way to do that. If we are able to communicate lived examples of triumph through stories to young people I believe they will feel empowered to make change in their own lives. This is how I was able to move so far so quickly in the field of technology. I found one person who had a story that was similar to my own story and I hung onto that story until that was not my reality any longer. Being a black female non-technical person who wants to be a software engineer was something that was not very typical so initially I only really had one or two examples, but that was enough to get me to the next level and I hope that with the comprehension application we can help other young people find those stories and understand them.

Culturally relevant stories
There is no need for me to spend the time writing about segregated schools because there has been so much written about it in the past. If you are interested in learning more about why public school are so segregated you can look to writers like Nikole Hannah Jones who has done a wonderful job of exploring housing segregation in relation to school segregation and why so many low-income students of color are failing in the current school system. Thinking about this specifically and looking into the future, I plan to work hard to introduce mathematical thinking and logic into the comprehension curriculum and create a culturally relevant computer science curriculum. For me I don't think that this requires new textbooks or an entirely new learning structure I think that there is a lot of supplemental reading which is required to make it so that students attending a public school in California specifically have an understanding of how computer science concepts relate to their lives. I will continue to write about this in more depth but keep a lookout if you are interested.

You can view the initial prototype of the book selection and the write up on how exactly the project works here.

[paper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YqKSwm7qJmjFA-OJ7lYdHlANnUkDjarObX3_j8EMHVM/edit?usp=sharing)

