The past few weeks have been very difficult for some of us and maybe even the past year, it certainly was for Leila Janah and her chosen family who had been battling cancer for the past year. Leila lost the battle to cancer a week ago, but her legacy will live on through her company and now through a research initiative to provide more therapeutic solutions for patients with epithelioid sarcoma. Leila was a powerful force in technology and it was not until recently that I realized exactly what she was working on with Samasource and data labeling. To me, she was a wonderful woman in technology who was occupying space and this alone was enough for her to be an idol.

[Research to the people](https://www.researchtothepeople.org/epithelioid-sarcoma-event)
In March of 2019, Leila was diagnosed with epithelioid sarcoma, a rare form of cancer and fought a difficult losing battle to the disease last week. When Leila realized that she had gone further than her current medical team was able to take her in terms of effective treatment, she hired an advisory clinical oncologist to give her cutting edge treatment recommendations which might lead to an improvement in her condition.

"As her cancer progressed, Leila began working with Research to the People, a non-profit biomedical research initiative, to accelerate research into this rare sarcoma and to identify potential treatments outside the standard of care. Two weeks ago, the group convened a summit of over 50 experts in oncology, molecular biology, bioinformatics, and software engineering to analyze the data of Leila’s case. The 3-day medical hackathon included in-depth research on ES and its genetic mutations in an attempt to identify new therapeutic approaches to combating this aggressive disease. In hopes of advancing ES research as a whole, Leila conducted a genome sequencing of her cancer, and her tissue sample analysis continues to provide a meaningful scientific opportunity. The research is ongoing, and its findings will be shared with the cancer community for the benefit of future ES patients, as was Leila’s wish."
[NYT Leila Dead](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/30/business/leila-janah-dead.html)

Leila collected her medical records and the results of many clinical tests and made those records available to a team of researchers who met in person and online over a weekend at Stanford Medical Centers, Snyder Lab.

No alt text provided for this image
The team consisted of bioinformaticists, geneticists, oncologists, pharmacologists and computer scientists, who all wanted to find answers, to find Leila a cure.


As a data girl, this is where things get interesting.

I wanted to understand at each step of her treatment was happening within the biological pathways which caused her to become sicker. I wanted to understand why cancer metastasis was spreading to other organ systems and how the prescribed medications were supposed to interact with the mutated genes to remedy this. Here are a few things I learned and I will write a few more blog posts detailing what computation tools I think could be effective in creating a modeling tool that could be used for more effective diagnostics.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/K8u4kemLrc8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Genetic testing can be really useful in finding germline and somatic gene mutations. Once you have a list of gene mutations or variant genes, which are classified by comparing the sequenced genome to a healthy normalized genome sequence, you can search drug databases and clinical trial hubs to figure out how certain chemicals could extend or inhibit particular gene properties. This could include speeding up a certain cycle or slowing down another.
Computer scientists interested in bioinformatics should think about partnering with biology students earlier in their studies to follow the progression of their thesis research because one Ph.D. could only amount to the mastery of one chemical pathway process or one particular gene mutation and its effects. Having so many different Ph.D.'s in one room allowed our group to bounce ideas off one another based on past research experience and then further analysis was necessary. NCBI and clinicaltrials.gov have massive amounts of data but you need to know what you are looking for. There needs to be some way to get from gene mutation -> cellular pathway/ process degradation identification -> drug recommendation.
Current chemotherapy treatments are combinations of extremely toxic drugs with a limited lifetime distribution amount. A patient could respond positively to a certain combination of chemo drugs but could only be able to take 3 doses of the drug in their lifetime and each time new mets start growing there is a need to restart the chemotherapy. What does the patient do once they have taken all the chemo they are legally allowed to consume?
It was such a pleasure working on this case and this is still a work in progress. I am really happy to have co-authored the report of Leila's research study which should be published soon. And if you are a person interested in bioinformatics and questions about how to get started with public data sets and understanding what they mean, I have learned a lot in the past few weeks which I am really excited to share.

RIP Leila Janah.
