I have been studying reinforcement learning since November 2018 when I learned what is was during my time with Insight Data Science. I was an artificial intelligence fellow and I was so fascinated by this idea that you could simulate an environment and get an agent to learn an optimal policy to maximize rewards from that environment. The more I read about RL the more I noticed men were using RL to either train robots or using it to create and play video games. I thought this was such a whack idea! Robots are really cool but reinforcement learning could be used for so much more, I just didn't have any examples of how it could be done yet so I imagined one possibility for using reinforcement learning in an educational environment. I gave a talk on this at the agile testing conference in Chicago a few months ago. I was planning to talk more about criminal justice but this was much more interesting and what I had been reading up on so I decided at the last minute to change the talk.


I thought of a way to use the OpenAI gym to create a new environment. The environment would simulate an academic classroom without a teacher. I was very inspired by the work that squirrel AI is doing and how they have modularized the learning components and created a system that supplements the traditional learning experience inside the classroom. In my ideal environment, the agents would be students and they would interact with learning components in the environment. I am currently collecting data from real students only in the kindergarten age range but as I start to develop the computer science curriculum I plan to work more with middle and high school-age students. The environment could simulate an entire year's curriculum if this was standardized somewhere or it could simulate one subject for say grade 8.

How students could interact with the environment
Say a student comes into the comprehension app looing to level up on algorithms but has yet to take a data structures and algorithms class. We can use the environment to help the student figure out which portion of an algorithms course it would make the most sense to start exploring first given what they already know. This is where reinforcement learning comes in. If we have portions of the environment which are interactive subjects and subsections filled with curriculum components then a student can answer questions about a component and based on their answers to the questions we can determine what subjects the student needs to master before moving on. We could recommend blog posts and certain YouTubers who do a great job of explaining concepts in a way personalized to the individual learner.

A bit on personalized learning
Each student is different and learns in a unique way and currently, there are no products that actually address the differences students experience in the way they learn. Some students sit in public school classrooms and attempt to write down everything the teacher says without writing down any of their own questions about what the teacher is saying. I am not sure if these students ever take the time to think about how productive this form of notetaking actually is and if it is serving their needs. I was sure when I first started reading about learning that most students were aware that they needed to listen and interact with the material in some way to actually absorb it. This could come in the form of drawing pictures while listening to a lecture or asking follow up questions after certain portions of the lecture but writing down everything the instructor is saying as they are saying it doesn't seem like a productive way of learning at the moment.

Comprehension hopes to address some of the misconceptions that students have with the learning process itself and the material. We want to help students understand that just because a certain technique works for one student, this does not mean that it will work out the same way for them and so there is a real need for students to engage with their own misunderstandings or confusion around subject mastery and gain an understanding of the ways they personally learn. Comprehension hopes to help learners explore different methods for mastery and we hope to learn how our students learn difficult concepts including computer science.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bJnulQgNTMU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

#computerscienceeducation #comprehension
