# Product Overview: Content Management System

After the trip, I learned that developers in the developing countries are trying to bridge the gap between traditional education (university) and skills which would make them ready for work. They have a broad range of interests but do not currently have the skills to contribute to the workforce at the moment. I realize then that we needed a product which would help these students and graduates bridge this gap. In development, we already had a partnership with Kaplan to provide web development training in an online format, but the team had not fully examined what would be the most useful curriculum to distribute. As a person who graduated from dev bootcamp, the physical bootcamp which distributed the Kaplan content, I was able to give a lot of insight into how and why this curriculum would be relevant or not. I also had a broad range of knowledge about what other topics students in the field cared about.

I created a project plan which detailed the topic areas which I determined students cared about and would need practical skills to move forward. I then prioritized the three tracks which we could build the curriculum for by sourcing the web and writing guides for.

Check out one of the groups:

You can browse around the site. The guides that you see, I write the text for, the links were sourced by me, and the learning path was developed by me, the sequence of steps.

I managed a team of engineers which we hired as external vendors, there were 5 engineers, one user experience designer, and a database administrator. We had daily 30 minute stand up sessions where we discussed the progress of the project. They had an external JIRA board which I monitored and we created a project road map dividing the project into sprints over 12 months. The first sprint ended with the launch of the product at F8, and we decided to postpone the production of the product until we understand how the users were using the product so that we would understand where exactly we should invest more money.

This project had a budget of $1.5 million dollars to serve a community of around ~150,000 developers. This product was intended to serve as an introductory tool to help developers go from University graduates with no practical work experience to entry-level developers with a few projects under their belts. There are many online resources for learning how to code, but some have a very high price tag per/ head so we did not have the budget to finance each person and other programs did not contain the practical personalized learning experience which has been proven to promote understanding and help the new learning process and digest new information. This was an important differentiating factor when thinking about how we would structure the program because we did not want to provide students with surface-level "Simon Says" projects because the learners would not be able to transfer the understanding to an employer and the value would be lost. We wanted to make sure to include multiple perspectives from a variety of content creators so that consumers with different learning styles would be able to consume the ideas being presented. This was really important in making sure that the funds we did have for this project were being managed well and would provide utility to our community.
