# May 6, 2023

## Current Schedule

| Time         | Monday | Tuesday   | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday | Saturday | Sunday |
|-------------------|:------:|:---------:|:---------:|:--------:|:------:|:--------:|:------:|
| 4:45 AM      | Wake Up|  Wake Up |  Wake Up   |  Wake Up |Wake Up |  Wake Up | Wake Up|
| 5:00 AM      | Walk to YMCA |  Walk to YMCA |  Walk to YMCA   |  Walk to YMCA| Walk to YMCA | Move to Chapel | Move to Chapel |
| 5:20 AM      | Shower |  Shower |  Shower   |  Shower | Shower |  Sleep in Chapel | Sleep in Chapel |
| 6:00 AM      | Walk to Bus Stop|  Walk to Bus Stop |  Walk to Bus Stop   |  Walk to Bus Stop | Walk to Bus Stop |  Walk to Storage | Walk to Storage|
| 7:00 AM      | Sun & Fork Shift |  Sun & Fork Shift |  FREE   |  FREE  | FREE  |  Wake Up | Wake Up|
| 8:30 AM      | *WORK*|  *WORK* |  FREE  |  FREE | FREE|  Sun & Fork Shift  | Sun & Fork Shift |
| 2:30 PM      | Sun & Fork Shift END |  Sun & Fork Shift END |  Wake Up   |  Wake Up |Wake Up |  Sun & Fork Shift END | Sun & Fork Shift END|
| 3:00 PM      | LUNCH |  LUNCH |  LUNCH  | LUNCH | LUNCH | LUNCH | LUNCH |
| 4:00 PM      | CHANGE CLOTHES |  CHANGE CLOTHES |  CHANGE CLOTHES  | CHANGE CLOTHES | CHANGE CLOTHES | CHANGE CLOTHES |CHANGE CLOTHES |
| 6:00 PM      | WRITE |  WWRITE |     |  WRITE | WRITE |  WRITE | WRITE |
| 7:00 PM      | WORK OUT|  WORK OUT |  WORK OUT   |  WORK OUT | WORK OUT |  WORK OUT | WORK OUT |
| 8:00 PM      | WORK OUT|  WORK OUT |  WORK OUT   |  WORK OUT | WORK OUT |  WORK OUT | WORK OUT |
| 9:00 PM      | Dinner @ Cava | Dinner @ Cava | Dinner @ Cava | Dinner @ Cava  | Dinner @ Cava | Dinner @ Cava  | Dinner @ Cava |
| 10:00 PM     | Walk 2 Misson | Walk 2 Misson | Walk 2 Misson | Walk 2 Misson | Walk 2 Misson | Walk 2 Misson | Walk 2 Misson |
| 10:20 PM     | Sleep | Sleep | Sleep | Sleep | Sleep | Sleep | Sleep |


I am officially in my adulting era and it feels very strange. I have been sort of doing it, but nothing like this. I have been turning on my camera every single day and talking about my feelings. I do have real feelings about things and that it weird to say aloud. I am sitting in a Starbucks coffee shop and I think I am going to download the app - I mean the Starbucks mobile app because I feel tapped in, in a way that I haven't ever felt before. I have always felt here, like I know that I am physically in the place with other people but I just don't feel like we are having a shared experience and I don't really feel like the other people care that I am here or that I exist. I guess this is why I have been blogging more, more than usual. I want to remind myself that I am real and that my experiences are valid.

## ADULTING

A few important lessons
- What you have is what you have, you only get more if you can pay for it.
- You HAVE to work to earn your money
- EVERYTHING costs money, including and especially women
- Poor women can sometimes sell their bodies
- You might have to start by using by using public resources
- Keep track of your things, this is important
- You have to keep track of how and where you sleep

### What are the things that you need to bring with you and keep with you?
- A state Identification card with your birthdate 
- Your smart cell phone

I am not sure what your parents left you with, hopefully it is a sense of work ethic, but if not that is fine too because you have life and you can sort of learn the work ethic by just working. Literally just working is enough. I don’t know why I was under the impression that I would have more time for things. I thought that I would have more time to think and have more time to plan and have more time to just be, but that is not a thing. There is just not enough time at all. There is no time and time is money and you need all of the money you have. I guess I was a time hoarder. I would just hoard the time and think that I could somehow just get the time back and that is just not the case. You can’t really get the time back at all and you have to use what you have to get what you need. 

### WHAT IS THE MISSION
The mission is a homeless shelter. It’s a place where people who do not have homes can come and stay for a temporary amount of time until they get their lives together. This is not a bad thing at all this is actually a very chill thing if you ask me. People need places to stay and not everyone has a family that they can fall back on when times get rough. 

### HOW DID I LAND HERE
Sort of lack of planning but also sort of lack of generational wealth. I did a LOT of planning and we can talk about where that planning went wrong another time. I broke the lease on my apartment building and had to move out sort of immediately and I didn’t have enough time to find another place. That sucks but that is also totally my fault. I don’t have anyone else to blame for that mistake. I totally did this to myself. And I owe like $7,000 to my apartment building and I have to pay that money back so that really sucks. I was going to land in an airbnb like book a bunch of long term stays there but I wouldn’t have saved as much money and I need to save a bunch of money so.

### HOW DID I MOVE OUT SO QUICK
I booked a Uhaul - I went to the container store and bought a bunch of plastic storage containers to pack my shit and then I stuffed all of my clothes and things into the storage container. It was messy and it was weird honestly but it worked. I tried to organize some things and I tried to put some things away but that didn’t really work. I also got some help from a guy who worked at the U-hual facility. I paid him $150 and he helped me move my bed and all of my boxes out of my apartment and into the storage units. The storage units are real life savers because you can just put all of your shit in there and its fine.

### WHAT AM I GOING TO DO NOW
I am going to stick this out. I think that in about 6 months I can save enough money to pay off the rent that I owe and I desperately need to do this. I am going to do a lot of writing and maybe get one of the albums done that I have been wanting to complete.

### Things I store in a locked locker @ the Y
- My face wash
- My body wash
- My loofa

> There is SO much to talk about.

Lets start with the selfie of the day.
![its me])()

### Notable Articles I want to read

- []()
- []()
- []()
- []()
- []()
- []()

### Notable Instagram Posts

- []()
- []()

### Future Forward

I was contacted by the American University of Rome in Italy I believe and that is pretty cool. 
There is also two grants that I would like to apply for. There is an [A16 black tides grant](https://info.a16z.com/apply-to-talent-x-opportunity.html) that helps black founders raise money and start a start-up. I would like to work on a new start-up called adulting that helps young adults get move out on their own and start their lives as adults with goals and financial planning help.

### Education

I was contacted by the American University of Rome in Italy I believe and that is pretty cool. If I go here I would study [travel tourism](https://aur.edu/program/bachelor-degree-travel-and-tourism-management) for sure. Check out the website and let me know what you think.

I am very inspired by Nishan who is doing some sort of film course at Tish which is the arts department at NYU. Her story just isnpires me to much to travel and if I do and when I do travel to Ethiopia I'm excited to visit some of the places she has lived.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/x17nevW6rq0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Concerts Im saving for

- BEYONCE - RENAISSANCE
- TAYLOR SWIFT - ERAS
